rnnnrumnnw urssnnrnruow. xiii

'e quinto Odarum illustrati.” But at that day, the cri-
tical knowledge of Horace was yet in its infancy: and
Sanadon stands without excuse for not atttending to
the Grammatical signification 'of Epodi, when in all
the editions hy Craquius from the year 1578 down·
wards the old commentarios on Horace had been
regularly published, with the commentatore clear and
explicit definition of (α) προῳδὸς, andos (β) ἐπ’ῳδός.

α. Ibis Liburnis inter alta navium,
’ β. Amice, propugnacula

That Archilochian metre which from its predominance
(and that of others similar) gave in an early century
its own appellation 'to the 'whole book of Epodes, is
not at this day much better understood from Gaisford's
Hephcestio (1810) pp. 129. 368. or from Hermann's
Elementa Doctrinae Metricoe, (1816) L. iii. c. XV.
than it might have ,been known for any practical pur,-
pose in the year 1578. ’

Of all this however, Sanadon has shown, if not a
profound ignorance, Ι yet a most offensive contempt.
His comment on the very first Epode, Ibis Liburnis,
irc. he thus introduces, “Gette Ode est proprement
une lettre en vers liriques!” No wonder, that an
editor who found byric Odes in what Horace himself ¹
denominated (Epulv. 7. cf. ΙΕ. XIX. 23-25).

Inceptos, olim promissum munus, lambos, >

should become enamoured of ,his own inventione and
create³a'chaosacoordingly ’

 

