oanmmuusr nrssnsrurrou, lix

Scribe, qui digni sunt illoordine, patresfamilias,

viri boni atque honesti—ad eos me revoca. Noli hos
colligere, qui nummulis corrogatis de nepotum donis,
ac de scenicorum corollariis cum decuriam emerunt, ex
primo ordine explosorum, in secundum ordinem cici·
tatia sevenisse dicunt. Mirabimur turpes ahquos ibi
esse, quo cuivis licet pretio pervenire? ¹ .

The whole passage in the original is singularly
curious, especially under the head of collybus and ceru-
riuma as showing the extent of knavery which then
could be practised in the provincial governments of
Rome.

But in the apparent wreck of all his fortunes it
may be asked, how was Horace enabled to buy this

Munus Scribe, this decuriam? summulis corrogatis, ·

it may be answered: but from whence the corrogatis?
Perhaps, from good-natured friends still at Rome, even
in those days of confusion: perhaps, it has sometimes
struck my mind, from persons in the neighbourhood
oi Venusia, where on old accounts in his long absence
unsettled, money might yet be due to him for arrears
of rent.

At all events, however, one can hardly resist the
conclusion, that Horace did buy a kind of patent place
as clerk in the Treasury. The words of Suetonius
coaptum quaestorium comparavit, are quite express and
distinct. The allusion in the well known passage,
ahere his presence was required at a general meet·

ing,

 

